In this video I want to talk about the
UCR catalog. We can use the
catalog to give to books here at UCR. We
can also use it to get access to
articles, reference articles and more. The
way to get there is to start from the
library homepage just library.ucr.edu
and if you scroll down to
the popular the UCR catalog is here. To
search the catalog, type in your search
in the search box in the light blue bar
near the top so. I'll enter college
admissions I enter it and we get a drop
down menu below the search box. You can
select college admissions in everything
this is what gets you the books and
articles. Library catalog is just things
here at UCR. Our tab and their new one is
course reserves down at the bottom. We
all know that textbooks are expensive.
And so if your professor puts the
material on reserve, then you will be
able to have access to it. Maybe for a
couple of hours that's plenty of time to
scan the information take it and take it
away with you. So that really is a nice
money saver. I'll scroll up and click on
everything, and we have
the results coming in on the right hand
side in through here. On the left hand
side there are some options you can
tweak the results by limiting them to just those that
are available online. So I'll click on
line and apply filters and it's
returning the results that are
available online. If you find one that
looks so interesting then the first
thing to do is to open the record. The
reason I like opening the record, is that
at the bottom there is a summary. Of a
subject there's a summary and this is
about a paragraph long description of
what's going on in the article. You can
look at the summary to see whether or
not it is along the lines of what you
need. If it is then scroll up and there
is an option to download the PDF right
near the top. So I'll click download pdf
and it goes out and gets the article for
me. With this you can just go you can go
ahead and download it to your your
device and walk away with the article.
Before you leave the record there is a
really nifty option in the details and
that's this citation. If you click
citation it will give you the elements
of a citation in MLA APA Chicago
whatever style your your assignment is
in. You can copy the citation to the
clipboard and then paste it somewhere
where you have access that way you've
downloaded the article and you've got
the you've got the elements of a
citation before before you walk away. One
thing to keep in mind is again to
double-check it for accuracy before you
turn the paper in. This is just giving
you an idea of what the citation looks
like it's not necessarily giving you the
final result.
I will let's take a look at other things
that we can do with this. With this we
can, on the resource type you can ask for
different kinds of material. So if you
know if your assignment calls for a books
we can limit it to just books. And I'm
going to put my available online
back on.
So here we've got books that are
available online. If there is one that
looks interesting, click the clip the
link. And we see the
same thing that we saw before. In this case
we can go to eBook central and have
access to the book since it's available
online.
Now one option I really like is that, if
it's available just in print and we're
able to get into the library
then click map it. What map it will do is
give you a book map that gives you an
idea of where this is located. So this is
telling us that it's in the Rivera
library, on the second floor, and
approximately this location down here. Or if
it's too small to see there is some
really excellent information this line
right here is telling us a shelving role
name like number in this case 274, I
think and it also has the call number
down here. So just take a photo of that
take a photo of the map and use that as
a guide to get to the get to the
resource.
One final thing is that right now we are
all closed, and we're not able to get to
the get to the physical book. And so we
are creating a guide of ways that you
can get into a print textbook if if if
it's been scanned somewhere. That's just
under this URL guides.lib.ucr.edu/extracovidaccess. And from
this guy there are places where we can
check and see if a  text book is
available. There are other places other
resources that you can get to for maybe
not a textbook, but other vendors where
we can get to see whether or not it's
been scanned. So we're using that, keep
checking this site because vendors are
coming in all the time saying yep during
this emergency we can we will make our
material available. So that's an
introduction to the library catalog we
can get articles books more stuff to the
catalog.